---
title: "How Leadership Style Develops: Evidence from Prefecture-Level Government Work Report in China"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2023-06-01-how-leader
excerpt: 'This paper finds that the government work report is an important tool to realize “Leader Effect”. Since mayor’s education degree, major and professional title profoundly affects his leadership style, these educational and professional background plays a role in affaceting further local development by influencing the formulation of goervnment work report.'
date: 2023-06-01
venue: 'Bachelor thesis'
slidesurl: 'http://thenhow-ye.github.io/files/slides2.pdf'
paperurl: 'http://thenhow-ye.github.io/files/YE-how-leadership-style-develops.pdf'
citation: 'Ye, Renhao. (2023). &quot;How Leadership Style Develops: Evidence from Prefecture-Level Government Work Report in China.&quot; <i>Peking University Bachelor Thesis</i>.'
---

Abstract: “Cardres are a decisive factor, once a political line is decided.” With the process of reform and opening-up, China’s economy has witnessed rapid development. The literature represented by the “Promotion Tournament” is regarded as the most important political explanation of China’s economic development, but the existing literature is still limited to the overall political interpretation of economic development by cadre groups. This paper focuses on the mechanisms by which China’s prefecture-level government officials attach their personal will to local development, and theoretically dialogues with the classical literature on the political interpretation of China’s economic development and local government and politics in China. Focusing on the influence of the educational and professional backgrounds of prefecture-level government chief officials on “Leadership Style”, this paper specifies leadership style into two dimensions: working style and policy priority. Taking the mayors and government work reports of all prefecture-level cities in China from 2001 to 2020 as the research object, this paper adopts a mixed method of quantitative research and qualitative research. This paper first generate research hypotheses through a large quantity of work report texts, work instructions and interview materials; then, applies “natural language processing”(NLP) and “machine learning” to construct panel data for work report text analysis, and tests the hypothesis by two-way fixed effect regression; finally, uses interview materials, oral history, and memoirs to analyze mechanism. This paper finds that the government work report is an important tool to realize “Leader Effect”. Since mayor’s education degree, major and professional title profoundly affects his leadership style, these educational and professional background plays a role in affaceting further local development by influencing the formulation of goervnment work report. The contribution of this paper is to provide an empirical evidence of the mechanism of “Leader Effect”, and to try to establish a more rigorous logical chain between individual officials and local development. This paper also provides a new approach to introduce policy texts into quantitative research.

Key Words: Prefecture-level Government; Work Report; Natural Language Processing; Leadership Style; Professional Background; Political Elite
